well AB Tia senior spokesperson for the
Middle East at the world food program
joins us now from Cairo thank you very
much for being on eljer I know you must
be extremely busy at this point in time
first of all can you just bring us up to
date with what the situation is right
now in terms of food inside
Gaza well the situation is quite severe
the conflict has severely disrupted food
production and the distribution networks
in Gaza and in the West Bank with the
borders closed Gaza is on the brink of
running out of food water and
electricity half of the shops that are
that we are monitoring uh inside Gaza
have reported that they might run out of
food in two days others have stocks for
less than a week out of five Mills um
inside uh Gaza only one is still
operational which means that the
production of bread is being impacted so
in the also in the West Bank shops are
running out of supplies the electricity
Cuts is bringing the threat of spoiling
Foods the only Power Plant in Gaza is
running out of fuel so we do have a lot
of risks especially that we are unable
even on the humanitarian side to
replenish our food stocks our warehouses
are really running low because we're
Distributing food on daily basis today
we have reached up till now 380,000
people whether it is um with uh ready to
eat food in the UN run shelters or by
the distribution of vouchers uh for some
of the families outside so they can go
to the stores and have whatever is left
of the stocks in the sites in these
stores you said that some places are
going to run out of food within two days
what happens after that point in time
apart from people not being able to eat
what what what actually happens in the
days after
that we'll be very difficult these days
will be Bleak people will go hungry and
this is why the world food program is
calling for humanitarian access to Gaza
to allow the delivery of essential food
commodities Fuel and other humanitarian
supplies we need safe and OB
unobstructed uh passage to all the
humanitarian workers and the protection
of the premises we work and also most
importantly to be able to get food
inside Gaza Gaza the prepositioned food
stocks that FP uh have is running out we
only had food enough for 44,000 PE uh
people that's beginning at the beginning
uh of the crisis just like four or five
days ago and we will run out so we H we
have procured food regionally we have
food that's ready to be deployed we just
need the safe access and the safe
passage who are you appealing to are you
talking to anyone directly are you
talking to Israel are you talking to
Egypt the United Nations the the United
uned States who who are you speaking to
directly about trying to get a
humanitarian corridor open so you can
get supplies back into
Gaza I think collectively as the United
Nations were all calling and appealing
and the I know the Secretary General is
doing a lot of efforts uh to uh you know
help open a passage for the humanitarian
supplies inside Gaza but also from the
world food program uh we are in touch
with all the parties to allow us to get
to this point I think there are also the
issue of you know shelling and safe
passage and ensuring that these trucks
have the guarantees that would uh make
them able to go inside Gazza but also
most importantly to be able to move
inside Gazza to get food from these
borders to the areas where we need to
distribute them which is basically
mostly the shelter yeah of course just
finally is this your worst case scenario
what is playing out right
now of course I think it's it's a it's a
very dire situation it's difficult the
humanitarian suffering is beyond uh
imagination and um you know we're
running out of time we're running out of
supplies and our hands are
tied okay thank you so much we really do
appreciate your time that is ABIA atifa
the senior spokesperson for the Middle
East at the world food program thank you
so much